## Application Workflow on Production Prediction using Random Forest Model Given 1 of the 7 Sampling Methods

#### Project Description:

This project demonstrates the use of an unconventional reservoir dataset to identify production patterns in the field to establish a relationship between possible petrophysical parameters and production by generating an enhanced Artificial Intelligence (AI) workflow. To do this, I first engineer the features before employing a series of feature selection methods to determine the optimal features to utilize when predicting production. Various training and testing datasets are generated by employing random sampling, K-means Clustering, and Gaussian Mixture Models in order to sample from the map area. I do this in order to reduce the sampling bias and ensure that the machine learning models are being trained and tested on data coming from similar geological regions with similar production rate values. This workflow will then employ a random forest model on its effectiveness to predict production given a determined set of predictive features for a given training and testing dataset scenario, where I tune the hyperparameter each time for a given sampling method. The result of this workflow should demonstrate that with the integration of these techniques, a better understanding of the parameters useful for optimizing oil production is possible.

#### Project Requirements:

This project requires the following Python libraries to be installed in order to work:

* Numpy
* Pandas
* Os
* Copy
* Time
* Warnings
* Seaborn as sns
* Matplotlib
* Math
* Random 
* Shutil 
* Scipy (linalg and stats packages)
* Voronoi
* Voronoi_plot_2d
* Sklearn (mixture, preprocessing, ensemble, metrics, feature_selection, cluster, and model_selection packages)

This synthetic dataset can be found on the GitHub page of Michael Pyrcz, but you will need to create a latitude and longitude column. I based these coordinates off of random production wells that comes from a real-world dataset, but unfortunately, I cannot supply that dataset. Any series of random numbers for latitude and longitude coordinates should be fine such that you can run this workflow on your machine.

#### Project Results:

* By performing feature engineering, the machine learning methods were able to perform optimally, thereby enabling more reliable results with potential outliers removed and the variances of each feature standardized to one with a mean of zero.
* During feature selection, I utilized the derived correlation coefficients plus the mutual information and feature importance to find the 4 optimal predictive features that had a high correlation to Production, yet were not highly correlated between each other. Computing these coefficients was another way to mitigate the chance of multicollinearity (i.e., decrease the dimensionality of the problem, and decrease the chance of redundant features), and to allow for the random forest model to perform optimally.
* Random Sampling, K-means Clustering and GMMs were employed to generate various training and testing datasets. The clustering methods aimed to achieve a reduction in the sampling bias by exposing the predictive machine learning models to data points representing similar geological regions and feature value distributions in both the derived training and testing datasets. I performed a 70/30 train-test split, and found that the clustering methods employed derived clusters based on geological regions that had similar production rate values. This proecdure did seem to reduce the sampling bias in most of the given training and testing dataset scenarios when analyzing histogram distributions of the features and scatter plots of the production wells.
* The 4 optimal predictive features found for the random forest method were consistent for each training and testing dataset generated, and allowed for extremely high accuracy and extremely low error in the machine learning model performance. Of course, finding the optimal random state to sample from the clusters or entire map helped in achieving these results.
* In the end, this workflow has created an enhanced AI workflow for finding a relationship between a set of predictive features and oil production in order to optimize hydrocarbon production when hydraulically fracturing the reservoir.
